docs/integrations/sources/notion.md, before:

# Notion

This page contains the setup guide and reference information for the Notion source connector.

## Setup guide​

### Step 1: Set up Notion​

1. Create a new integration on the [My integrations](https://www.notion.so/my-integrations) page.

:::note

You must be the owner of a Notion workspace to create a new integration.

:::

2. Fill out the form. Make sure to check **Read content** and check any other [capabilities](https://developers.notion.com/reference/capabilities) you want to authorize.
3. Click **Submit**.
4. In the **Integration type** section, select either **Internal integration** (token authorization) or **Public integration** (OAuth2.0 authentication).
5. Check the capabilities you want to authorize.
6. If you select **Public integration**, fill out the fields in the **OAuth Domain & URIs** section.
7. Click **Save changes**.
8. Copy the Internal Access Token if you are using the [internal integration](https://developers.notion.com/docs/authorization#authorizing-internal-integrations), or copy the `access_token`, `client_id`, and `client_secret` if you are using the [public integration](https://developers.notion.com/docs/authorization#authorizing-public-integrations).

### Step 2: Set up the Notion connector in Airbyte

<!-- env:cloud -->
**For Airbyte Cloud:**

1. Log in to your [Airbyte Cloud](https://cloud.airbyte.com/workspaces) account.
2. Click **Sources** and then click **+ New source**.
3. On the Set up the source page, select **Notion** from the **Source type** dropdown.
4. Enter a name for your source.
5. Choose the method of authentication:
      * If you select **Access Token**, paste the access token from [Step 8](#step-1-set-up-notion​).
      * If you select **OAuth2.0** authorization, click **Authenticate your Notion account**.
          * Log in and Authorize the Notion account. Select the permissions you want to allow Airbyte.
6. Enter the **Start Date** in YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ssZ format. All data generated after this date will be replicated. If this field is blank, Airbyte will replicate all data.
7. Click **Set up source**.
<!-- /env:cloud -->

<!-- env:oss -->
**For Airbyte Open Source:**

1. Log in to your Airbyte Open Source account.
2. Click **Sources** and then click **+ New source**.
3. On the Set up the source page, select **Notion** from the **Source type** dropdown.
4. Enter a name for your source.
5. Choose the method of authentication:
      * If you select **Access Token**, paste the access token from [Step 8](#step-1-set-up-notion​).
      * If you select **OAuth2.0** authorization, paste the client ID, access token, and client secret from [Step 8](#step-1-set-up-notion​).
6. Enter the **Start Date** in YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ssZ format. All data generated after this date will be replicated. If this field is blank, Airbyte will replicate all data.
7. Click **Set up source**.
<!-- /env:oss -->

## Supported sync modes

The Notion source connector supports the following [sync modes](https://docs.airbyte.com/cloud/core-concepts#connection-sync-modes):
* [Full Refresh - Overwrite](https://docs.airbyte.com/understanding-airbyte/connections/full-refresh-overwrite/)
* [Full Refresh - Append](https://docs.airbyte.com/understanding-airbyte/connections/full-refresh-append)
* [Incremental - Append](https://docs.airbyte.com/understanding-airbyte/connections/incremental-append) (partially)
* [Incremental - Deduped History](https://docs.airbyte.com/understanding-airbyte/connections/incremental-deduped-history)

## Supported Streams

The Notion source connector supports the following streams. For more information, see the [Notion API](https://developers.notion.com/reference/intro).

* [blocks](https://developers.notion.com/reference/retrieve-a-block)
* [databases](https://developers.notion.com/reference/retrieve-a-database)
* [pages](https://developers.notion.com/reference/retrieve-a-page)
* [users](https://developers.notion.com/reference/get-user)

:::note

The users stream does not support Incremental - Append sync mode.

:::

## Performance considerations

The connector is restricted by Notion [request limits](https://developers.notion.com/reference/request-limits). The Notion connector should not run into Notion API limitations under normal usage. [Create an issue](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/issues) if you encounter any rate limit issues that are not automatically retried successfully.

## Changelog

| Version | Date       | Pull Request                                             | Subject                                                                      |
|:--------|:-----------|:---------------------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1.1.0   | 2023-06-08 | [27170](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/27170) | Fix typo in `blocks` schema |
| 1.0.9   | 2023-06-08 | [27062](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/27062) | Skip streams with `invalid_start_cursor` error                               |
| 1.0.8   | 2023-06-07 | [27073](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/27073) | Add empty results handling for stream `Blocks`                               |
| 1.0.7   | 2023-06-06 | [27060](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/27060) | Add skipping 404 error in `Blocks` stream                                    |
| 1.0.6   | 2023-05-18 | [26286](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/26286) | Add `parent` field to `Blocks` stream                                        |
| 1.0.5   | 2023-05-01 | [25709](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/25709) | Fixed `ai_block is unsupported by API` issue, while fetching `Blocks` stream |
| 1.0.4   | 2023-04-11 | [25041](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/25041) | Improve error handling for API /search                                       |
| 1.0.3   | 2023-03-02 | [22931](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/22931) | Specified date formatting in specification                                   |
| 1.0.2   | 2023-02-24 | [23437](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/23437) | Add retry for 400 error (validation_error)                                   |
| 1.0.1   | 2023-01-27 | [22018](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/22018) | Set `AvailabilityStrategy` for streams explicitly to `None`                  |
| 1.0.0   | 2022-12-19 | [20639](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/20639) | Fix `Pages` stream schema                                                    |
| 0.1.10  | 2022-09-28 | [17298](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/17298) | Use "Retry-After" header for backoff                                         |
| 0.1.9   | 2022-09-16 | [16799](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/16799) | Migrate to per-stream state                                                  |
| 0.1.8   | 2022-09-05 | [16272](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/16272) | Update spec description to include working timestamp example                 |
| 0.1.7   | 2022-07-26 | [15042](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/15042) | Update `additionalProperties` field to true from shared schemas              |
| 0.1.6   | 2022-07-21 | [14924](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/14924) | Remove `additionalProperties` field from schemas and spec                    |
| 0.1.5   | 2022-07-14 | [14706](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/14706) | Added OAuth2.0 authentication                                                |
| 0.1.4   | 2022-07-07 | [14505](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/14505) | Fixed bug when normalization didn't run through                              |
| 0.1.3   | 2022-04-22 | [11452](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/11452) | Use pagination for User stream                                               |
| 0.1.2   | 2022-01-11 | [9084](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/9084)   | Fix documentation URL                                                        |
| 0.1.1   | 2021-12-30 | [9207](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/9207)   | Update connector fields title/description                                    |
| 0.1.0   | 2021-10-17 | [7092](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/7092)   | Initial Release                                                              |

Commit message:

:bug: Source Notion: migrated to advancedAuth (#26535)
* Connector health: source hubspot, gitlab, snapchat-marketing: fix builds

* migrated to advanced_auth

* #26535 source notion: upd changelog

---------

Co-authored-by: Denys Davydov <davydov.den18@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Ben Church <ben@airbyte.io>

docs/integrations/sources/notion.md, after:

# Notion

This page contains the setup guide and reference information for the Notion source connector.

## Setup guide​

### Step 1: Set up Notion​

1. Create a new integration on the [My integrations](https://www.notion.so/my-integrations) page.

:::note

You must be the owner of a Notion workspace to create a new integration.

:::

2. Fill out the form. Make sure to check **Read content** and check any other [capabilities](https://developers.notion.com/reference/capabilities) you want to authorize.
3. Click **Submit**.
4. In the **Integration type** section, select either **Internal integration** (token authorization) or **Public integration** (OAuth2.0 authentication).
5. Check the capabilities you want to authorize.
6. If you select **Public integration**, fill out the fields in the **OAuth Domain & URIs** section.
7. Click **Save changes**.
8. Copy the Internal Access Token if you are using the [internal integration](https://developers.notion.com/docs/authorization#authorizing-internal-integrations), or copy the `access_token`, `client_id`, and `client_secret` if you are using the [public integration](https://developers.notion.com/docs/authorization#authorizing-public-integrations).

### Step 2: Set up the Notion connector in Airbyte

<!-- env:cloud -->
**For Airbyte Cloud:**

1. Log in to your [Airbyte Cloud](https://cloud.airbyte.com/workspaces) account.
2. Click **Sources** and then click **+ New source**.
3. On the Set up the source page, select **Notion** from the **Source type** dropdown.
4. Enter a name for your source.
5. Choose the method of authentication:
      * If you select **Access Token**, paste the access token from [Step 8](#step-1-set-up-notion​).
      * If you select **OAuth2.0** authorization, click **Authenticate your Notion account**.
          * Log in and Authorize the Notion account. Select the permissions you want to allow Airbyte.
6. Enter the **Start Date** in YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ssZ format. All data generated after this date will be replicated. If this field is blank, Airbyte will replicate all data.
7. Click **Set up source**.
<!-- /env:cloud -->

<!-- env:oss -->
**For Airbyte Open Source:**

1. Log in to your Airbyte Open Source account.
2. Click **Sources** and then click **+ New source**.
3. On the Set up the source page, select **Notion** from the **Source type** dropdown.
4. Enter a name for your source.
5. Choose the method of authentication:
      * If you select **Access Token**, paste the access token from [Step 8](#step-1-set-up-notion​).
      * If you select **OAuth2.0** authorization, paste the client ID, access token, and client secret from [Step 8](#step-1-set-up-notion​).
6. Enter the **Start Date** in YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ssZ format. All data generated after this date will be replicated. If this field is blank, Airbyte will replicate all data.
7. Click **Set up source**.
<!-- /env:oss -->

## Supported sync modes

The Notion source connector supports the following [sync modes](https://docs.airbyte.com/cloud/core-concepts#connection-sync-modes):
* [Full Refresh - Overwrite](https://docs.airbyte.com/understanding-airbyte/connections/full-refresh-overwrite/)
* [Full Refresh - Append](https://docs.airbyte.com/understanding-airbyte/connections/full-refresh-append)
* [Incremental - Append](https://docs.airbyte.com/understanding-airbyte/connections/incremental-append) (partially)
* [Incremental - Deduped History](https://docs.airbyte.com/understanding-airbyte/connections/incremental-deduped-history)

## Supported Streams

The Notion source connector supports the following streams. For more information, see the [Notion API](https://developers.notion.com/reference/intro).

* [blocks](https://developers.notion.com/reference/retrieve-a-block)
* [databases](https://developers.notion.com/reference/retrieve-a-database)
* [pages](https://developers.notion.com/reference/retrieve-a-page)
* [users](https://developers.notion.com/reference/get-user)

:::note

The users stream does not support Incremental - Append sync mode.

:::

## Performance considerations

The connector is restricted by Notion [request limits](https://developers.notion.com/reference/request-limits). The Notion connector should not run into Notion API limitations under normal usage. [Create an issue](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/issues) if you encounter any rate limit issues that are not automatically retried successfully.

## Changelog

| Version | Date       | Pull Request                                             | Subject                                                                      |
|:--------|:-----------|:---------------------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1.1.1   | 2023-06-14 | [26535](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/26535) | Migrate from deprecated `authSpecification` to `advancedAuth`                |
| 1.1.0   | 2023-06-08 | [27170](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/27170) | Fix typo in `blocks` schema                                                  |
| 1.0.9   | 2023-06-08 | [27062](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/27062) | Skip streams with `invalid_start_cursor` error                               |
| 1.0.8   | 2023-06-07 | [27073](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/27073) | Add empty results handling for stream `Blocks`                               |
| 1.0.7   | 2023-06-06 | [27060](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/27060) | Add skipping 404 error in `Blocks` stream                                    |
| 1.0.6   | 2023-05-18 | [26286](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/26286) | Add `parent` field to `Blocks` stream                                        |
| 1.0.5   | 2023-05-01 | [25709](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/25709) | Fixed `ai_block is unsupported by API` issue, while fetching `Blocks` stream |
| 1.0.4   | 2023-04-11 | [25041](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/25041) | Improve error handling for API /search                                       |
| 1.0.3   | 2023-03-02 | [22931](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/22931) | Specified date formatting in specification                                   |
| 1.0.2   | 2023-02-24 | [23437](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/23437) | Add retry for 400 error (validation_error)                                   |
| 1.0.1   | 2023-01-27 | [22018](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/22018) | Set `AvailabilityStrategy` for streams explicitly to `None`                  |
| 1.0.0   | 2022-12-19 | [20639](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/20639) | Fix `Pages` stream schema                                                    |
| 0.1.10  | 2022-09-28 | [17298](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/17298) | Use "Retry-After" header for backoff                                         |
| 0.1.9   | 2022-09-16 | [16799](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/16799) | Migrate to per-stream state                                                  |
| 0.1.8   | 2022-09-05 | [16272](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/16272) | Update spec description to include working timestamp example                 |
| 0.1.7   | 2022-07-26 | [15042](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/15042) | Update `additionalProperties` field to true from shared schemas              |
| 0.1.6   | 2022-07-21 | [14924](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/14924) | Remove `additionalProperties` field from schemas and spec                    |
| 0.1.5   | 2022-07-14 | [14706](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/14706) | Added OAuth2.0 authentication                                                |
| 0.1.4   | 2022-07-07 | [14505](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/14505) | Fixed bug when normalization didn't run through                              |
| 0.1.3   | 2022-04-22 | [11452](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/11452) | Use pagination for User stream                                               |
| 0.1.2   | 2022-01-11 | [9084](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/9084)   | Fix documentation URL                                                        |
| 0.1.1   | 2021-12-30 | [9207](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/9207)   | Update connector fields title/description                                    |
| 0.1.0   | 2021-10-17 | [7092](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/7092)   | Initial Release                                                              |
