docs/integrations/sources/recharge.md, before:

# Recharge

This source can sync data for the [Recharge API](https://developer.rechargepayments.com/).
This page guides you through the process of setting up the Recharge source connector.

## Prerequisites

- A Recharge account with permission to access data from accounts you want to sync.
- Recharge API Token

## Setup guide

### Step 1: Set up Recharge

Please read [How to generate your API token](https://support.rechargepayments.com/hc/en-us/articles/360008829993-ReCharge-API).

### Step 2: Set up the source connector in Airbyte

<!-- env:cloud -->

**For Airbyte Cloud:**

1. [Log into your Airbyte Cloud](https://cloud.airbyte.com/workspaces) account.
2. In the left navigation bar, click **Sources**. In the top-right corner, click **+ new source**.
3. On the source setup page, select **Recharge** from the Source type dropdown and enter a name for this connector.
4. Choose required `Start date`
5. Enter your `Access Token`.
6. click `Set up source`.
<!-- /env:cloud -->

<!-- env:oss -->

**For Airbyte Open Source:**

1. Go to local Airbyte page.
2. In the left navigation bar, click **Sources**. In the top-right corner, click **+ new source**.
3. On the source setup page, select **Recharge** from the Source type dropdown and enter a name for this connector.
4. Choose required `Start date`
5. Enter your `Access Token` generated from `Step 1`.
6. click `Set up source`.
<!-- /env:oss -->

## Supported sync modes

The Recharge supports full refresh and incremental sync.

| Feature           | Supported? |
| :---------------- | :--------- |
| Full Refresh Sync | Yes        |
| Incremental Sync  | Yes        |
| SSL connection    | Yes        |

## Supported Streams

Several output streams are available from this source:

- [Addresses](https://developer.rechargepayments.com/v1-shopify?python#list-addresses) \(Incremental sync\)
- [Charges](https://developer.rechargepayments.com/v1-shopify?python#list-charges) \(Incremental sync\)
- [Collections](https://developer.rechargepayments.com/v1-shopify)
- [Customers](https://developer.rechargepayments.com/v1-shopify?python#list-customers) \(Incremental sync\)
- [Discounts](https://developer.rechargepayments.com/v1-shopify?python#list-discounts) \(Incremental sync\)
- [Metafields](https://developer.rechargepayments.com/v1-shopify?python#list-metafields)
- [Onetimes](https://developer.rechargepayments.com/v1-shopify?python#list-onetimes) \(Incremental sync\)
- [Orders](https://developer.rechargepayments.com/v1-shopify?python#list-orders) \(Incremental sync\)
- [Products](https://developer.rechargepayments.com/v1-shopify?python#list-products)
- [Shop](https://developer.rechargepayments.com/v1-shopify?python#shop)
- [Subscriptions](https://developer.rechargepayments.com/v1-shopify?python#list-subscriptions) \(Incremental sync\)

If there are more endpoints you'd like Airbyte to support, please [create an issue.](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/issues/new/choose)

### Performance considerations

The Recharge connector should gracefully handle Recharge API limitations under normal usage. Please [create an issue](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/issues) if you see any rate limit issues that are not automatically retried successfully.

## Changelog

| Version | Date       | Pull Request                                             | Subject                                                                                   |
|:--------|:-----------|:---------------------------------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 0.2.10  | 2023-06-20 | [27503](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/27503) | Update API version to 2021-11                                                             |      
| 0.2.9   | 2023-04-10 | [25009](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/25009) | Fix owner slicing for `Metafields` stream                                                 |      
| 0.2.8   | 2023-04-07 | [24990](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/24990) | Add slicing to connector                                                                  |      
| 0.2.7   | 2023-02-13 | [22901](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/22901) | Specified date formatting in specification                                                |      
| 0.2.6   | 2023-02-21 | [22473](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/22473) | Use default availability strategy                                                         |              
| 0.2.5   | 2023-01-27 | [22021](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/22021) | Set `AvailabilityStrategy` for streams explicitly to `None`                               |
| 0.2.4   | 2022-10-11 | [17822](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/17822) | Do not parse JSON in `should_retry`                                                       |
| 0.2.3   | 2022-10-11 | [17822](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/17822) | Do not parse JSON in `should_retry`                                                       |
| 0.2.2   | 2022-10-05 | [17608](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/17608) | Skip stream if we receive 403 error                                                       |
| 0.2.2   | 2022-09-28 | [17304](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/17304) | Migrate to per-stream state.                                                              |
| 0.2.1   | 2022-09-23 | [17080](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/17080) | Fix `total_weight` value to be `int` instead of `float`                                   |
| 0.2.0   | 2022-09-21 | [16959](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/16959) | Use TypeTransformer to reliably convert to schema declared data types                     |
| 0.1.8   | 2022-08-27 | [16045](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/16045) | Force total_weight to be an integer                                                       |
| 0.1.7   | 2022-07-24 | [14978](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/14978) | Set `additionalProperties` to True, to guarantee backward cababilities                    |
| 0.1.6   | 2022-07-21 | [14902](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/14902) | Increased test coverage, fixed broken `charges`, `orders` schemas, added state checkpoint |
| 0.1.5   | 2022-01-26 | [9808](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/9808)   | Update connector fields title/description                                                 |
| 0.1.4   | 2021-11-05 | [7626](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/7626)   | Improve 'backoff' for HTTP requests                                                       |
| 0.1.3   | 2021-09-17 | [6149](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/6149)   | Update `discount` and `order` schema                                                      |
| 0.1.2   | 2021-09-17 | [6149](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/6149)   | Change `cursor_field` for Incremental streams                                             |

Commit message:

:rotating_light: :rotating_light: Source Recharge: fix stream schema (#27612)
* Connector health: source hubspot, gitlab, snapchat-marketing: fix builds

* #1879 source recharge: fix schema

* #1879 source recharge: upd changelog

* upd CAT config

* source recharge: upd CAT config

---------

Co-authored-by: Augustin <augustin@airbyte.io>

docs/integrations/sources/recharge.md, after:

# Recharge

This source can sync data for the [Recharge API](https://developer.rechargepayments.com/).
This page guides you through the process of setting up the Recharge source connector.

## Prerequisites

- A Recharge account with permission to access data from accounts you want to sync.
- Recharge API Token

## Setup guide

### Step 1: Set up Recharge

Please read [How to generate your API token](https://support.rechargepayments.com/hc/en-us/articles/360008829993-ReCharge-API).

### Step 2: Set up the source connector in Airbyte

<!-- env:cloud -->

**For Airbyte Cloud:**

1. [Log into your Airbyte Cloud](https://cloud.airbyte.com/workspaces) account.
2. In the left navigation bar, click **Sources**. In the top-right corner, click **+ new source**.
3. On the source setup page, select **Recharge** from the Source type dropdown and enter a name for this connector.
4. Choose required `Start date`
5. Enter your `Access Token`.
6. click `Set up source`.
<!-- /env:cloud -->

<!-- env:oss -->

**For Airbyte Open Source:**

1. Go to local Airbyte page.
2. In the left navigation bar, click **Sources**. In the top-right corner, click **+ new source**.
3. On the source setup page, select **Recharge** from the Source type dropdown and enter a name for this connector.
4. Choose required `Start date`
5. Enter your `Access Token` generated from `Step 1`.
6. click `Set up source`.
<!-- /env:oss -->

## Supported sync modes

The Recharge supports full refresh and incremental sync.

| Feature           | Supported? |
| :---------------- | :--------- |
| Full Refresh Sync | Yes        |
| Incremental Sync  | Yes        |
| SSL connection    | Yes        |

## Supported Streams

Several output streams are available from this source:

- [Addresses](https://developer.rechargepayments.com/v1-shopify?python#list-addresses) \(Incremental sync\)
- [Charges](https://developer.rechargepayments.com/v1-shopify?python#list-charges) \(Incremental sync\)
- [Collections](https://developer.rechargepayments.com/v1-shopify)
- [Customers](https://developer.rechargepayments.com/v1-shopify?python#list-customers) \(Incremental sync\)
- [Discounts](https://developer.rechargepayments.com/v1-shopify?python#list-discounts) \(Incremental sync\)
- [Metafields](https://developer.rechargepayments.com/v1-shopify?python#list-metafields)
- [Onetimes](https://developer.rechargepayments.com/v1-shopify?python#list-onetimes) \(Incremental sync\)
- [Orders](https://developer.rechargepayments.com/v1-shopify?python#list-orders) \(Incremental sync\)
- [Products](https://developer.rechargepayments.com/v1-shopify?python#list-products)
- [Shop](https://developer.rechargepayments.com/v1-shopify?python#shop)
- [Subscriptions](https://developer.rechargepayments.com/v1-shopify?python#list-subscriptions) \(Incremental sync\)

If there are more endpoints you'd like Airbyte to support, please [create an issue.](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/issues/new/choose)

### Performance considerations

The Recharge connector should gracefully handle Recharge API limitations under normal usage. Please [create an issue](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/issues) if you see any rate limit issues that are not automatically retried successfully.

## Changelog

| Version | Date       | Pull Request                                             | Subject                                                                                   |
|:--------|:-----------|:---------------------------------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1.0.0   | 2023-06-22 | [27612](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/27612) | Change data type of the `shopify_variant_id_not_found` field of the `Charges` stream      |
| 0.2.10  | 2023-06-20 | [27503](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/27503) | Update API version to 2021-11                                                             |      
| 0.2.9   | 2023-04-10 | [25009](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/25009) | Fix owner slicing for `Metafields` stream                                                 |      
| 0.2.8   | 2023-04-07 | [24990](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/24990) | Add slicing to connector                                                                  |      
| 0.2.7   | 2023-02-13 | [22901](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/22901) | Specified date formatting in specification                                                |      
| 0.2.6   | 2023-02-21 | [22473](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/22473) | Use default availability strategy                                                         |              
| 0.2.5   | 2023-01-27 | [22021](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/22021) | Set `AvailabilityStrategy` for streams explicitly to `None`                               |
| 0.2.4   | 2022-10-11 | [17822](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/17822) | Do not parse JSON in `should_retry`                                                       |
| 0.2.3   | 2022-10-11 | [17822](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/17822) | Do not parse JSON in `should_retry`                                                       |
| 0.2.2   | 2022-10-05 | [17608](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/17608) | Skip stream if we receive 403 error                                                       |
| 0.2.2   | 2022-09-28 | [17304](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/17304) | Migrate to per-stream state.                                                              |
| 0.2.1   | 2022-09-23 | [17080](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/17080) | Fix `total_weight` value to be `int` instead of `float`                                   |
| 0.2.0   | 2022-09-21 | [16959](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/16959) | Use TypeTransformer to reliably convert to schema declared data types                     |
| 0.1.8   | 2022-08-27 | [16045](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/16045) | Force total_weight to be an integer                                                       |
| 0.1.7   | 2022-07-24 | [14978](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/14978) | Set `additionalProperties` to True, to guarantee backward cababilities                    |
| 0.1.6   | 2022-07-21 | [14902](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/14902) | Increased test coverage, fixed broken `charges`, `orders` schemas, added state checkpoint |
| 0.1.5   | 2022-01-26 | [9808](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/9808)   | Update connector fields title/description                                                 |
| 0.1.4   | 2021-11-05 | [7626](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/7626)   | Improve 'backoff' for HTTP requests                                                       |
| 0.1.3   | 2021-09-17 | [6149](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/6149)   | Update `discount` and `order` schema                                                      |
| 0.1.2   | 2021-09-17 | [6149](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/6149)   | Change `cursor_field` for Incremental streams                                             |
