airbyte-integrations/connectors/source-smartsheets/README.md, before:

# Smartsheets Source 

This is the repository for the Smartsheets source connector, written in Python.
For information about how to use this connector within Airbyte, see [the documentation](https://docs.airbyte.io/integrations/sources/smartsheets).

### Author
This connector was created by Nate Nowack, github.com/zzstoatzz.

## How Airbyte connects to your Smartsheets
This version of the Airbyte-Smartsheet source connector utilizes API keys to access your source sheet(s). You can generate an API key for your account from a session of your Smartsheet webapp by clicking:


- Account (top-right icon)
- Apps & Integrations
- API Access
- Generate new access token


Airbyte will ask for this token when you configure the source connector. You will also need the ID of the Smartsheet, which you can copy from your Smartsheet app session by going to:
- File
- Properties

## Local development

### Prerequisites
**To iterate on this connector, make sure to complete this prerequisites section.**

#### Minimum Python version required `= 3.7.0`

#### Build & Activate Virtual Environment and install dependencies
From this connector directory, create a virtual environment:
```
python -m venv .venv
```

This will generate a virtualenv for this module in `.venv/`. Make sure this venv is active in your
development environment of choice. To activate it from the terminal, run:
```
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
If you are in an IDE, follow your IDE's instructions to activate the virtualenv.

Note that while we are installing dependencies from `requirements.txt`, you should only edit `setup.py` for your dependencies. `requirements.txt` is
used for editable installs (`pip install -e`) to pull in Python dependencies from the monorepo and will call `setup.py`.
If this is mumbo jumbo to you, don't worry about it, just put your deps in `setup.py` but install using `pip install -r requirements.txt` and everything
should work as you expect.

#### Building via Gradle
From the Airbyte repository root, run:
```
./gradlew :airbyte-integrations:connectors:source-smartsheets:build
```

#### Create credentials
**If you are a community contributor**, follow the instructions in the [documentation](https://docs.airbyte.io/integrations/sources/smartsheets)
to generate the necessary credentials. Then create a file `secrets/config.json` conforming to the `source_smartsheets/spec.json` file.
Note that the `secrets` directory is gitignored by default, so there is no danger of accidentally checking in sensitive information.
See `sample_files/sample_config.json` for a sample config file.

**If you are an Airbyte core member**, copy the credentials in Lastpass under the secret name `source smartsheets test creds`
and place them into `secrets/config.json`.


### Locally running the connector
```
python main_dev.py spec
python main_dev.py check --config secrets/config.json
python main_dev.py discover --config secrets/config.json
python main_dev.py read --config secrets/config.json --catalog sample_files/configured_catalog.json
```

### Unit Tests
To run unit tests locally, from the connector directory run:
```
python -m pytest unit_tests
```

### Locally running the connector docker image

#### Build
First, make sure you build the latest Docker image:
```
docker build . -t airbyte/source-smartsheets:dev
```

You can also build the connector image via Gradle:
```
./gradlew :airbyte-integrations:connectors:source-smartsheets:airbyteDocker
```
When building via Gradle, the docker image name and tag, respectively, are the values of the `io.airbyte.name` and `io.airbyte.version` `LABEL`s in
the Dockerfile.

#### Run
Then run any of the connector commands as follows:
```
docker run --rm airbyte/source-smartsheets:dev spec
docker run --rm -v $(pwd)/secrets:/secrets airbyte/source-smartsheets:dev check --config /secrets/config.json
docker run --rm -v $(pwd)/secrets:/secrets airbyte/source-smartsheets:dev discover --config /secrets/config.json
docker run --rm -v $(pwd)/secrets:/secrets -v $(pwd)/sample_files:/sample_files airbyte/source-smartsheets:dev read --config /secrets/config.json --catalog /sample_files/configured_catalog.json
```

### Integration Tests
1. From the airbyte project root, run `./gradlew :airbyte-integrations:connectors:source-smartsheets:integrationTest` to run the standard integration test suite.
1. To run additional integration tests, place your integration tests in a new directory `integration_tests` and run them with `python -m pytest -s integration_tests`.
   Make sure to familiarize yourself with [pytest test discovery](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/goodpractices.html#test-discovery) to know how your test files and methods should be named.

## Dependency Management
All of your dependencies should go in `setup.py`, NOT `requirements.txt`. The requirements file is only used to connect internal Airbyte dependencies in the monorepo for local development.

### Publishing a new version of the connector
You've checked out the repo, implemented a million dollar feature, and you're ready to share your changes with the world. Now what?
1. Make sure your changes are passing unit and integration tests
1. Bump the connector version in `Dockerfile` -- just increment the value of the `LABEL io.airbyte.version` appropriately (we use SemVer).
1. Create a Pull Request
1. Pat yourself on the back for being an awesome contributor
1. Someone from Airbyte will take a look at your PR and iterate with you to merge it into master

Commit message:

🚨Source Smartsheets - add support for ingesting metadata fields (#22382)
* Adds metadata field

* update requirements to support for python 3.10

* update sample config to reflect metadata fields

* modify spec and sheet to include metadata fields

* update tests to account for metadata fields

* update using python 3.10 base image

* fix linting errors

* update test files for integrations tests

* update readme to include info on metadata fields

* update acceptance-test yaml format

* update docs include metadata info and change log

* Adds metadata field

* update requirements to support for python 3.10

* update sample config to reflect metadata fields

* modify spec and sheet to include metadata fields

* update tests to account for metadata fields

* update using python 3.10 base image

* fix linting errors

* update test files for integrations tests

* update readme to include info on metadata fields

* resolve merge conflicts

* update docs include metadata info and change log

* address merge conflict issues

* update sample config files for integrations tests

* fix spec and acceptance tests config

* revert image change from python 3.10 to 3.9

* update metadata fields in spec to enum

* bump version

---------

Co-authored-by: jeanluciano <jeanluciano@mailbox.org>
Co-authored-by: Sajarin <sajarindider@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Mal Hancock <mallory@archangelic.space>

airbyte-integrations/connectors/source-smartsheets/README.md, after:

# Smartsheets Source 

This is the repository for the Smartsheets source connector, written in Python.
For information about how to use this connector within Airbyte, see [the documentation](https://docs.airbyte.io/integrations/sources/smartsheets).

### Author
This connector was created by Nate Nowack, github.com/zzstoatzz.

## How Airbyte connects to your Smartsheets
This version of the Airbyte-Smartsheet source connector utilizes API keys to access your source sheet(s). You can generate an API key for your account from a session of your Smartsheet webapp by clicking:


- Account (top-right icon)
- Apps & Integrations
- API Access
- Generate new access token


Airbyte will ask for this token when you configure the source connector. You will also need the ID of the Smartsheet, which you can copy from your Smartsheet app session by going to:
- File
- Properties

Optionally you can include a list of metadata fields to be ingested by the connector, these fields are optional however the config file does require the metadata_fields be present, see sample_config.json under integrations tests for an example.

| Supported Metadata Fields |
|------|
|sheetcreatedAt|
|sheetid|
|sheetmodifiedAt|
|sheetname|
|sheetpermalink|
|sheetversion|
|sheetaccess_level|
|row_id|
|row_access_level|
|row_created_at|
|row_created_by|
|row_expanded|
|row_modified_by|
|row_parent_id|
|row_permalink|
|row_number|
|row_version|

## Local development

### Prerequisites
**To iterate on this connector, make sure to complete this prerequisites section.**

#### Minimum Python version required `= 3.7.0`

#### Build & Activate Virtual Environment and install dependencies
From this connector directory, create a virtual environment:
```
python -m venv .venv
```

This will generate a virtualenv for this module in `.venv/`. Make sure this venv is active in your
development environment of choice. To activate it from the terminal, run:
```
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
If you are in an IDE, follow your IDE's instructions to activate the virtualenv.

Note that while we are installing dependencies from `requirements.txt`, you should only edit `setup.py` for your dependencies. `requirements.txt` is
used for editable installs (`pip install -e`) to pull in Python dependencies from the monorepo and will call `setup.py`.
If this is mumbo jumbo to you, don't worry about it, just put your deps in `setup.py` but install using `pip install -r requirements.txt` and everything
should work as you expect.

#### Building via Gradle
From the Airbyte repository root, run:
```
./gradlew :airbyte-integrations:connectors:source-smartsheets:build
```

#### Create credentials
**If you are a community contributor**, follow the instructions in the [documentation](https://docs.airbyte.io/integrations/sources/smartsheets)
to generate the necessary credentials. Then create a file `secrets/config.json` conforming to the `source_smartsheets/spec.json` file.
Note that the `secrets` directory is gitignored by default, so there is no danger of accidentally checking in sensitive information.
See `sample_files/sample_config.json` for a sample config file.

**If you are an Airbyte core member**, copy the credentials in Lastpass under the secret name `source smartsheets test creds`
and place them into `secrets/config.json`.


### Locally running the connector
```
python main_dev.py spec
python main_dev.py check --config secrets/config.json
python main_dev.py discover --config secrets/config.json
python main_dev.py read --config secrets/config.json --catalog sample_files/configured_catalog.json
```

### Unit Tests
To run unit tests locally, from the connector directory run:
```
python -m pytest unit_tests
```

### Locally running the connector docker image

#### Build
First, make sure you build the latest Docker image:
```
docker build . -t airbyte/source-smartsheets:dev
```

You can also build the connector image via Gradle:
```
./gradlew :airbyte-integrations:connectors:source-smartsheets:airbyteDocker
```
When building via Gradle, the docker image name and tag, respectively, are the values of the `io.airbyte.name` and `io.airbyte.version` `LABEL`s in
the Dockerfile.

#### Run
Then run any of the connector commands as follows:
```
docker run --rm airbyte/source-smartsheets:dev spec
docker run --rm -v $(pwd)/secrets:/secrets airbyte/source-smartsheets:dev check --config /secrets/config.json
docker run --rm -v $(pwd)/secrets:/secrets airbyte/source-smartsheets:dev discover --config /secrets/config.json
docker run --rm -v $(pwd)/secrets:/secrets -v $(pwd)/sample_files:/sample_files airbyte/source-smartsheets:dev read --config /secrets/config.json --catalog /sample_files/configured_catalog.json
```

### Integration Tests
1. From the airbyte project root, run `./gradlew :airbyte-integrations:connectors:source-smartsheets:integrationTest` to run the standard integration test suite.
1. To run additional integration tests, place your integration tests in a new directory `integration_tests` and run them with `python -m pytest -s integration_tests`.
   Make sure to familiarize yourself with [pytest test discovery](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/goodpractices.html#test-discovery) to know how your test files and methods should be named.

## Dependency Management
All of your dependencies should go in `setup.py`, NOT `requirements.txt`. The requirements file is only used to connect internal Airbyte dependencies in the monorepo for local development.

### Publishing a new version of the connector
You've checked out the repo, implemented a million dollar feature, and you're ready to share your changes with the world. Now what?
1. Make sure your changes are passing unit and integration tests
1. Bump the connector version in `Dockerfile` -- just increment the value of the `LABEL io.airbyte.version` appropriately (we use SemVer).
1. Create a Pull Request
1. Pat yourself on the back for being an awesome contributor
1. Someone from Airbyte will take a look at your PR and iterate with you to merge it into master
